9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen and here
in Hong Kong. You're watching the China
Show. [music] I'm Yvonne Man with David
and Glenn.
>> We're counting down to the open of
markets in greater China. Let's get to
the top stories today. Nvidia out with
earnings seeking to reassure investors
[music] after latest results getting a
lukewarm response. Uh the company's
touting progress in diversifying [music]
its revenue. The company also announcing
an $80 billion stock buyback.
>> Asian stocks [music] jumping as oil
prices hold declines on easing concerns
about the Middle East with President
Trump [music] saying the US is in quote
the final stages with Iran. Also ahead,
[music] Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin
sign a pact uh to deepen strategic
cooperation, but there is no mention of
a key [music] gas pipeline project.
And I'm Haslinda Amin at the JP Morgan
Global China Summit here in Shanghai.
Geopolitical risk, China's [music]
economy, AI, and so much more in focus
with a big lineup of exclusive guests,
including the man [music] himself, CEO
Jamie Dimon.
Don't forget about all the worries that
we [music] had the last couple of
sessions about bond sell-off, inflation
fears. Right now, it's tech front and
center that's really giving enough
tailwinds for Asia today with the Nvidia
results that really didn't really
impress some of the investors out there,
but at least it's enough for maybe the
hardware space and of course the chip
makers here in this part of the world.
Yeah, I mean,
we've just gotten spoiled, I guess, with
the type of of of of guidance that
Nvidia gives. But, you know, even amidst
that or despite it or maybe even because
of it, right? No no nasty surprises
there. So, I think the other tech themes
are really re-emerging today. I mean,
yet again, it's another 6% day
in South Korea. Uh you guys probably
just saw this red headline across your
Bloomberg terminal right now. We talked
about SpaceX and an IPO, you know, this
uh open AI and the IPO conversation.
They're lifting SoftBank 20% as I speak.
So, we're up 3% uh on the Nikkei, which
is coming up very shortly on your
screens. But, the tech wave is really
showing up across these markets. And
Samsung, too, we forgot about that.
>> Yeah, I mean, that was the I guess you
could say 10:30 hour or 11th hour sort
of deal that was set between the company
and the labor union to avert that
strike. Well, that was supposed to
happen today. So, there you go. Plenty
of relief from investors there. We saw,
you know, right now, uh a surge in the
shares here. So, certainly, you add the
Nvidia news plus Samsung plus SpaceX
IPO, Open AI IPO, you add Anthropic news
in there. I mean, I think there's plenty
to deal with here today in terms of good
news for tech. Absolutely. And yields
are down. Yes. Yields are down. So, I
think that's also providing some good
platform uh for for stocks to rally
today. Uh just a note to uh as we look
ahead to the Chinese markets today, a
couple of big earnings are coming
through today. Keep an eye on that. Nio,
NetEase.
Uh there's also this resource story
that's starting to emerge in the
Asia-Pacific. You heard about Indonesia
yesterday and China's actually also set
to impose some mining controls on some
strategic minerals. Uh so, we'll watch
all those themes as we get into the
thick of things today. But, yes, front
and center today will really, really be
uh what's been happening in the tech
space given, of course, everything
uh that's taken place. Right. Uh for
more on the Nvidia story, let's uh bring
in Kunjan Samani here out of Bloomberg
Intelligence or semiconductor senior
analyst joining us from San Francisco.
Kunjan, good morning from the
Asia-Pacific. Thank you for joining us.
We're down in after hours on Nvidia.
Um I'm not sure if this is simply just a
sub par relative to Nvidia results or
was just everything in the price going
into the release of results?
It was more of the latter. I mean,
nothing about the results was sub par uh
in terms of the guide for the next
quarter, which came in at 91. Our checks
suggested buy side was looking to cross
a 90 billion
mark which they did. There were a lot of
other positive fundamental things in the
result, the 80 billion buyback, the
segmentation now showing that the growth
outside of the top cloud and
hyperscalers is actually faster. And
this is an area where there is much less
competition versus the competition in
the hyperscale cloud area is rising. So
a lot of positives from the results. I
mean if you go back and look at last
seven quarters, we have seen this trend
where the stock sort of
climbs up slowly until the day of the
results and no matter how good of a beat
and raise they deliver, usually the next
year response is a little bit lukewarm.
Kunjal, what about the competition,
right? I think about AMD, I think about
Intel and what they're doing when it
comes to CPUs and the like. And it seems
like the competition is intensifying in
some ways. Is there any sort of,
you know, evidence to suggest that, you
know, they're encroaching into this
Nvidia space here right now and that
this AI build up can continue up until
maybe 2027, 2028 now?
Yeah, the competition is intensifying. I
think it's the more risky risk is from
the ASICs like the the likes of TPUs
from Google and the Traniums of Amazon
rather than you would think Intel or
AMD. But however, that competition is
coming in a one particular segment which
was again the hyperscale segment which
is still pretty sizable driving a lot of
capex. But there's another 50% of the
revenues to your new cloud providers, to
your enterprises and so on. This is
where Nvidia sort of has a monopoly and
this is where the ASICs don't really fit
in. Regarding the duration of the
spending, look, they have a clear line
of sight to at least end of 2027
calendar, right? That one trillion
dollar demand pipeline safety net which
continues to grow every single quarter.
So we don't we don't we don't see any
risk through 2027. It's sort of the time
period beyond that, which is hard to
forecast. And look, the the CapEx cannot
be continued to grow at the same rate it
has been for the hyperscalers, right?
So, at some point, we do expect
normalization in terms of the CapEx.
But, what Nvidia is doing good is going
after new markets, the new $200 billion
CPU market that it outlined, going after
auto, robotics. Even though they are
small today, it's at least setting the
stage up there as a first early mover.
So, when those markets do cliff, Nvidia
can again enjoy a lot more billions of
dollars of revenue from them.
Yeah, what what Jensen Huang calls
physical AI. Kunjan, the more
transparency is always good, right? And
the
you know, the fact that Nvidia is
saying, "Look at us. Look at our
earnings." And the fact that they're
breaking down into this new reporting
framework into two platforms. What are
your initial thoughts on that?
Yeah, we really like that. I mean, for
the past many quarters, you know, our
own projections and estimates, we have
been trying to guestimate uh what is the
growth from this new bucket. So, it's
great now that they are reporting and we
stop have to guessing. And and people
were sort of missing the growth coming
from these new avenues and really
focused on just the top four CSPs.
Again, the top four CSPs are important,
but now when you think about 50% of this
revenue coming from these new growth
vectors, where again very less
competition. I think this will help
investors look and and track at what's
happening beyond just the top four
players.
Kunjan, fantastic. Thank you. Kunjan
Subani there, our senior analyst at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Just reflecting
what Kunjan just said, really across the
analysts, there was really nothing
disappointing about these earnings when
you look at them.
Uh I guess in a vacuum, just to look at
them very purely. And as you can see,
just the bullish commentary coming
through from a lot of analysts there on
the street.
>> We have another tech news as well. We
talked about it. There's no shortage
today. SpaceX has filed publicly for
what could be the largest ever IPO. The
filing revealed a net loss of 4.28
billion dollars for the first quarter
and a super voting share plan allowing
Elon Musk to keep the company under his
control. Sources say it's targeting a
valuation of more than 2 trillion
dollars, which could eclipse the record
set by Saudi Aramco back in 2019. Uh
meanwhile, Open AI said to be preparing
to file its IPO and of course we talked
about that SoftBank story up 20% still
as we speak. Uh Bloomberg has learned
that it is targeting a public debut
later this year and that the company is
working with Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley to make a confidential IPO
filing as soon as Friday.
>> Yeah, the bankers are busy, Dave, to say
the least. And it's a perfect timing to
go to JP Morgan and their global China
summit, which begins today in Shanghai
as business and economic leaders gather
to dig into the forces shaping the
world's second biggest economy. Let's
bring in our Bloomberg Inside anchor,
Haslinda Amin. She's at the summit with
our very first guest. Haslinda.
Von, you said it. The bankers are busy
and the IPO market is thriving. We're
obviously in the wrong color because it
is a positive day. Let's get inside's
perspective. Exclusively is Kevin Foley,
co-head of global investment banking
here at JP Morgan. Kevin, good to have
you with us. We talk about this
optimism. Yet yields at decade highs and
historically decade highs
yields would mean unraveling of the
stock market. That hasn't happened.
Well, first, good morning and thank you
for joining us here. We're excited to
kick off the conference and the summit.
You're right. I mean, there is
definitely challenges in terms of higher
rates and would defy a little bit of
logic around that. But I also think you
have to look at where we are from a
historical standpoint. Yes, we've been
at
decade plus lows, but where are we
coming from? We're coming off all-time
lows.
It's sort of a what is normal at
normalized yields.
And when you look at it, when I look at
earlier in my career,
yields were much higher
than what we've all operated. So, we've
had an environment where both financial
markets and from an economic
perspective, a lot of businesses
operated with a low rate environment.
But yet, does the 10-year Treasury go to
5%? Sure, but I can point to earlier in
my career where 10-year Treasury was
north of 7% and we operated perfectly
fine as an economy. So,
there can be a what is normal
You can argue that what has been in this
low rate environment over the past
decade plus has been more abnormal.
But it is about inflation, right? It's
sticky inflation. In fact, when you take
a look at oil prices, according to Wells
Fargo, a 1% increase in oil prices
equals a five basis point hike.
>> Yeah.
That is like what we're looking at oil
prices in excess of 50% from the start
of the Iran war. Well,
oil the pressure that's happening in oil
and the concerns around the Middle East
is a
major concern from an inflationary
pressure, right? When you look at it,
it's not just about what the price is at
the pump. When you start to look how
that reverberates throughout the economy
supply chains, from fertilizers to other
things that are part of everyday life
for all of us,
that is going to have real inflationary
pressure over time if it is sustained.
What is interesting is the market
continues taking optimistic view. When
you look at oil futures, they're
assuming prices come down later in the
year.
That obviously would ease off
inflationary pressures.
The longer this goes on, that concern
will grow about the likelihood.
I think it's interesting where you had
Look at the Fed expectations around Fed
cuts. We came into the year with
expectations we were going to get cuts
in this year. Right now, the market's
pricing in a 50% chance of a hike later
this year. So, we definitely have some
conflicting signals. Inflationary
pressure is going to continue to be a
risk throughout the year. Even if you
get a resolution today in the Middle
East, there's one, it's going to have to
ramp up and come back online. And there
are other inflationary pressures out
there. It's not changing the appetite
for deals, right? Talk to us about the
deal making activity right now around
the world. Activity continues to be very
strong. Well, when you look at it
particularly the equity markets,
continue to see good secondary trading
and the appetite in taking that
optimistic view, that is translating
from an IPO activity. We could see
globally the most active year since
we've seen in 2021, and you can make the
case in the US speculation about some
sizable deals that could make this even
a all-time high for what volumes could
be this year.
When you look here in Asia,
we are having a we're up 50%
year-over-year from ECM volumes as a
whole. IPO activity will be flat
year-over-year. That's our expectation.
But Hong Kong, China, we expect to be up
significantly. So, there's a geographic
mix shift into more Hong Kong, China.
You look at the 10 largest IPOs
year-to-date, four of them in the first
quarter came out of Hong Kong, China.
How much stronger for the IPO market in
in Hong Kong, China? What what are you
anticipating? You say significant, what
is that?
>> We think it's going to continue to be
strong. Well, when you look at the
secular themes of AI, robotics, and AI
healthcare, you take on AI means a lot,
right? From an infrastructure
standpoint, the supply chain that goes
on, energy, which get both and now we
get back to what's happening in the
Middle East and oil, energy resilience,
and also energy related to the needs
from an AI perspective. So, all of those
factors are driving.
There is a concentration within the
market of where deals are getting done,
and they largely play into those themes.
And the IPO market in the US as well, we
had from SpaceX, OpenAI, Anthropic. I
mean, these are massive IPOs. Will that
be translating into more IPO activities
elsewhere in the world as well? Is that
going to
encourage more activity? Yeah, the IPO
market it tends to activity but
tends to be get more activity.
Particularly when things trade well on
the break. So, if we see the
continuation of things trading well on
the break, that tends to encourage other
issuers to come off the sidelines and
getting deals done. And it it feeds the
appetite for more activity. Mhm. You
talked about the IPO market in Hong
Kong. It's mainly driven by mainland
companies. I mean, what will it take for
us to see non-mainland companies,
non-Chinese companies IPOing in Hong
Kong? Well, I think you have to have a
couple things, right? One is going to be
from a just evaluation and you look at
multiples, right? There's there's no
doubt when a
a non-mainline
uh land company is going to look,
they're going to look across if they've
got options, they're going to look
across markets.
You do have to have some nexus to them
to the region, right? When you look
across markets, whether we're looking in
Hong Kong or European markets or the US,
it you do have to have a nexus to the
regions. So, that's going to be
important part of it. I think if you get
those things, we what we're have you
will see an increase of activity.
Um in particular, as the education
process goes through on some of these
secular stories that we're talking
about, the investor base becomes more
and more knowledgeable about whether
it's from the robotics to AI, this makes
this market more attractive.
>> And Kevin, before we let you go, Japan
also seeing lots of deal activity, yeah?
Japan's been very strong. Uh you know,
you go back to another example where the
30-year
uh is at its all-time high in there, but
we continue to see good activity out
there. We also think this equity
activity is translating to good M&A
activity as well. We're seeing the
confidence within the C-suite of wanting
to do more deals. We think bigger, more
sizable deals, and more activity will
continue throughout the year. Obviously,
there's risks as we've talked about and
we'll see how those play out. Kevin,
great stuff. Kevin Foley, co-head of
global investment banking at JP Morgan.
He is optimistic. He says, "Look out for
more deals." David, handing it back to
you.
Okay. Haass lots more coming up there in
Shanghai with Haass at the JP Morgan
Summits, including conversations with
the faces you see on your screens.
Some might be familiar. Stay tuned for
those big ones coming through
over the next few hours or so. Cutting
down to the open of trade, about 14
minutes away. [music] Shanghai,
Shenzhen, and here in a an extremely
wet, rainy, and human Hong Kong. This is
the China Show.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. [music] So, just about wrapping
up.
Russian President Vladimir Putin and his
Chinese counterpart, of course, Chinese
President Xi Jinping have signed a pact
on deepening strategic cooperation, but
there has been no mention of any please
specific progress on a key gas line
project. Our chief North Asia
correspondent, Stephen Engle, joins us
right now from Suzhou
for an
for an upcoming separate meeting. Of
course, Steve's been very busy there on
the mainland. APEC meeting coming up.
Steve, yeah, wrap up what happened in
that meeting so far.
Well, you're absolutely right. We were
going into this summit between Putin and
Xi, we thought maybe some ground could
be gained for that long proposed and
long negotiated Power of Siberia 2 gas
pipeline that goes from upper central
Russia through Mongolia to China and all
the way out to Shanghai through Beijing.
But, it's a multi-multi-multi-year,
multi-multi-multi-billion-dollar
project that has been sort of hung up on
negotiations for price and also
commitment by China to buy and Vladimir
Putin arriving yesterday or the day
before actually for those talks with Xi
Jinping. The conventional wisdom was
that he felt that he had some bargaining
power given the oil price shock around
the world that perhaps China would like
to secure a long-term supply of
liquefied natural gas. Well, it it turns
out in the readouts from their meetings
this was not necessarily a high priority
or a high There was no There was no
results basically. We didn't get any
progress report other than the Kremlin
spokesperson saying
the two sides have you know essentially
agreed to the framework but again
there's still key details left to be
hashed out.
That has been the Kremlin's view for
many years. So to to basically reiterate
that we're we're still down to the final
details indicates that China is not
necessarily ready to find a mutually
acceptable
contract for this gas. Keep in mind
China's imports of LNG actually last
year started to decline. They are
diversifying more into renewables. Yes,
would they like to have a consistent
supply? Yes, but again they would want
at a better price and they don't want to
necessarily commit to X amount of gas
per year. They want to base it on
demand. Of course, Xi Jinping excuse me,
Vladimir Putin
with its war in Ukraine going into a
fifth year is seeing some strain heavy
strain on the Russian economy. So they
would like to see that sooner than
later. Other than that, these two
leaders just reaffirmed they're doubling
down on their strategic partnership
going forward as sort of a counterweight
to the West.
And really the good timing to really
have this apex summit where you are in
Suzhou, Steve on the back of course of
not just this Putin Xi meeting but also
when it came to that Trump Xi summit
just a week ago. What's on the agenda?
Well, obviously building resilience into
supply chains is high on the agenda here
as some 700 delegates converge on Suzhou
for a really what is the first major
meeting of the APEC calendar. China is
the host nation of APEC this year. Of
course, we're going to have that
high-profile summit in November, likely
in Well, it is in
Shenzhen, likely in November where you
could be seeing
Vladimir Putin there. You could be
seeing Donald Trump there as Xi Jinping
hosts those 21 member economies uh in
southern China to really showcase the
technology prowess uh in Guangdong and
in particular Shenzhen as an AI
powerhouse as well as Hangzhou up
further to the north. But again, there's
so many trade friction issues, no doubt,
uh with the US talking about possible uh
Section 301 investigations to resume uh
you know, the legality of tariffs
possibly as early as July. That could
throw, you know, this truce into
disarray, obviously, between Trump and
Xi Jinping on the trade front. So, there
are a lot of um
you know, regional disputes as well. The
Chinese did allow the Taiwanese trade
minister to come to Suzhou for this
trade ministers meeting. How much of a
voice, separate economic voice, will
Taiwan be able to have at these meetings
as sort of a platform before the main
leader summit in November is yet to be
seen. Also, the Japanese trade minister
has come here. He's going to have a
press conference later as well. That
will be very interesting to watch to see
if China and Japan can at least find
some common ground amid what's been a
lengthy economic dispute full of export
controls and um you know, restrictions
of travelers.
Yeah, we'll We'll Uh no
ministerial-level meetings between the
two just yet, but we'll see if anything
comes out of Suzhou there. Steve, thank
you. Our chief North Asia correspondent,
Stephen Engle, in Suzhou, China, for us.
And subscribers can also get more on
Putin's visit to Beijing and the impact
on relations with the US in our live
Q&A. I'm going to be hosting that one in
just about 2 hours' time. Bloomberg.com
for subscribers and terminal clients,
you can get the exclusive opportunity to
ask our BN team questions. So, that's
happening at 11:30 a.m. in Hong Kong and
Beijing, 11:30 p.m. if you're staying up
in New York.
>> Yep. Please keep them on topic, though.
You can ask [laughter] them Don't ask
them anything. I mean, you can, don't
expect an answer.
>> I'll be filtering through it. There we
go.
We're looking at this massive rally
taking place across the region. The
underperforming benchmark is up 2%. That
tells you everything you need to know. A
lot of the big tech plays are coming up
on your screens, that's because [music]
of those, although Greater China doesn't
seem to be joining early on here in this
rally. Lots more ahead, a preview of the
trading day is coming up. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Right, welcome back. Some gains, but in
in terms of the [music] coffee analogy,
this one is just black compared to the
one with extra sugar we're seeing across
the region today, but it's it's it's
still coffee, it's still going to pick
you up. And we're up 1% on the Hang
[music] Seng Tech Index.
>> Yeah, forgot if the whole question is
whether there's too much froth in this
whole trade here right now. I'm going to
continue your coffee analogy, Dave.
Assets to watch here, it's still the
chip space as well, just given the surge
that you're seeing across Korea and and
Taiwan [music] names here. There you go,
you're seeing the likes of SMIC, Hua
Hong Semi, extending those gains after
Hua Hong Semi was up double digits
yesterday here. So, the Samsung news
reaching [music] a deal to avert that
strike certainly is lifting the whole
sector here. You're watching the China
Show. The open is next.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. [music] You're watching
the China show. Lots of things to talk
about. A lot of
>> [music]
>> the lots of things have to do with tech.
Uh the SpaceX IPO, this report on
OpenAI.
Samsung has managed to avert the strike,
given Nvidia earnings, and it's really
translating to gains. Some parts are
showing up in the Chinese markets. Most
for the most part, they're showing up
across the region. Yeah, you know, when
you have news of of course the Nvidia,
it was a beat on all fronts, but still
wasn't enough to really appease or at
least surprise investors. But then
again, [music] I think it's still enough
to really excite the whole supply chain.
At least that as as Jasmine Huang said,
demand is still hyperbolic. Right now,
so this AI buildout story can continue
[music] possibly until next year. 2028
according to our Bloomberg Intelligence
says is where things get a little bit
more maybe murky, right? You take a look
at what it comes to the open though. As
with the Nvidia news, you have Samsung
averting that strike, then you have
Anthropic news about how they can double
the revenue from the prior quarter. You
had all these IPO news when it comes to
SpaceX as well as OpenAI. And SoftBank's
up some 20%.
>> Yeah.
>> That's really what's really leading and
driving this risk rally once again. So
forget all those, you know, wobbles that
we saw when it comes to yields are
ticking up higher. I mean, the bond
sell-off at least for today, you could
say is pretty much pressing the pause
button in a big way. You are seeing
plenty of risk appetite here. Onshore
markets are feeling it a little bit
here. You're seeing and when it comes to
Shanghai, we're up about 9/10 of 1% for
the CSI 300. Shenzhen seems to be also
pretty lit here this morning. Capricorn
Tech, there you go. The chip plays are
doing well. CATL, so the the old sort of
plays around renewables, around, uh you
know, all these new physical AI sort of
plays is still the next cycle here
according to Jensen Huang, right? It's
not just about the hyperscalers uh
scalers. The narrative has changed uh
into mobility, into the physical side of
AI. Uh you take a look what it comes to
Shanghai crew, maybe that's where that
you know, you're seeing why risk
sentiment is being you know, underpinned
here by the fact that oil prices are
coming off just a little bit here. Uh we
also have to talk about uh some of the
when it came to the mining sort of curbs
around strategic minerals. That's
something that we need to watch out for
when it comes to the commodity space
here today that China implemented. So
we'll we'll try to decipher what that
means here. Uh but then again, it's
still tech in focus. Take a look at how
Hong Kong is doing here. When you're
seeing the likes of Samsung, SK Hynix up
6 to 9% respectively,
>> [snorts]
>> you know, we'll see how the big China
tech plays play because it seems like uh
for now it is a mixed picture. Usually
China tech falters when this side of the
trade in Korea does well, right? So you
are seeing Alibaba, Baidu falling some
1% marginal gains when it comes to
Tencent. Not much appetite when it comes
to some of the big tech in China here
today. Albeit we do still have NetEase,
NIO set to report earnings, so maybe
some more when it comes to the EV side
of things. But there you go. The chip
side is looking pretty good. Chips are
in favor here today uh after that
Samsung, you know, 11th hour deal
between the labor union and the company
here. So I mean we're supposed to be
talking about a strike today. That at
least for now is in the in in the
rearview mirror here. Seems like the two
sides have found some sort of agreement
and that's really lifting the chip space
today across the region here as well.
Yeah, they
pardon the it's not a pun actually. I'm
just going to bend bend the term. They
struck a deal. Over [laughter] in that
strike. Uh yeah, and then some of the
critical minerals that's going to be
very much in focus, right? So I think
China's going to be imposing some
limits. They haven't been specific on
what critical minerals they're going to
to talk about, but this is really how
the rare earth story started late last
year. So I think we'll just keep an eye
on that specifically too. Uh so we
talked about tech as you were just
pointing out, right? So you have
Samsung. So that's interesting because
you have two IPOs stories. Um you have
of course SB Energy and you have of
course Open AI, but that's just to say
that's lifting uh those boats on your
screens. Uh Taiwan CPUs on the back of
the Nvidia story also coming up on your
screens. So we are still feeling the
tailwinds across that and yeah, so apart
from that uh we're just coming off of
course this big event that took me off
live shows yesterday, but I'm not that
I'm ranting for that.
>> We saw you with Kathy Wood. How was it
at the Sohn conference in Hong Kong? Did
I really look like an auctioneer? Uh
that's that was my first thing. Yeah.
Cuz you were standing there and then you
know Kathy Wood was behind you I think
and you're just like
I was going to announce my candidacy for
>> [laughter]
>> president? for office.
No, but it was it was a really good
experience, right? So I think the the
focus on in the morning session was on
women's health and the opportunities
there and certainly I think the
the takeaway I got was
we talk about AI, people are sleeping on
the revenue growth that biotech could
see because of the application of
technology and then I had to come back
we had this meeting in the afternoon,
right? So I had to come back and I
missed all the most of the stock pitches
that the the fundies came out and really
that was really the attraction of of
Sohn up until right right now.
>> Yeah, it's always about the the pitches,
right?
So I think this year there was a Tyson
Crop, Compact Manufacturing, CNH
Industrial, just some names. You can
read it all on our BN story here today
by our team. Um but yeah, it was
interesting here. Uh we we got one one
person that was there also with her
pick. Yes, and in fact she she joins us
today to talk about that just that. Our
next guest uh of course joins us as we
were just pointing out on the back of
the conference taking place Sohn Hong
Kong conference and in fact joining us
here on sets is Grace Chao, founder and
chief investment officer at Stillmark
Capital. Uh brief you at the fund of
course about a billion dollars invested
across the greater China markets,
long-only strategy, 20 to 30 stocks.
Not under-appreciated stocks, not so
much index stocks. So, are you guys
value investors? How should I describe
you guys? Um we are bottom-up stock
picker. We focus on the quality of the
company, the sustainable growth, and of
course the valuation is the most
important thing. Okay, so what's the
what's the stock pick? Yeah. So, the
idea I presented at the Sohn conference
yesterday was Yutong Bus. It's a China
A-share listed company. The company
actually has been listed in China A for
over 29 years, but it's forgotten by the
market. It's a hidden gem. So, what the
company does is the largest bus maker in
China, also largest globally. The
company has the largest scale, lowest
cost, and the best technology. So, in
terms of growth, the China bus market is
rather mature, but if you look at the
rest of the world, the EV bus
penetration is only about 10%. So, we
still see like a long runway for growth.
And this company, the most compelling
part, coming back to the value investing
point, is really the valuation. So, this
stock pays 6% dividend yield this year,
2026. So, it's really arguably one of
the most shareholder-friendly stories in
the entire China A-share space.
Do you Do you think the export growth is
sustainable, right? And can it actually
offset I think I believe domestic
revenue has actually declined in China.
Is it enough to kind of offset the the
structural headwinds that we're seeing
in China now? Yeah, so that's a very
good question. So, because the domestic
market has gone through this prolonged
down cycle, that's also the reason why
this stock is a hidden gem. So, the
export earnings right now is about 80%
of the earnings for this company, and
they have about 35% market share in
China, but in overseas, it's only about
6% in a market where the EV bus
penetration is only about 10%. So, we
think the company is still at the early
innings of the secular growth in
overseas market.
And okay, so we're looking at the
valuation. Now, let's call it 12 times
earnings. What do you think the multiple
should be? Yeah. So, long-term the the
kind of the safest way to think about it
is really a dividend multiple, right?
So, if a company can consistently pay
out like say pay 6% dividend yield on
this company, it's roughly about like a
15 times multiple. And the company is
very capital efficient because they have
completed majority of the capacity
expansion already. So, the company has a
willingness and also the track record to
pay 100% of earnings back to
shareholder. So, it's almost like a 100%
earning to dividend conversion for this
company. That's why we assume 15 times P
multiple at exit year, which give us a
30% IRR on this stock over the next 3
years.
Most people I think most of the
sell-side has a buy rating on this. What
What do you think your view differs?
Where Where's the kind of swing factor
for you and why this is such a topic for
you out of out of the entire EV bus
space now? Yeah. So, I think the
sell-side mostly focus on EV cars.
Market is really confused with the
confused with the EV cars versus the EV
buses. So, the EV cars you have the
industry heavyweight like BYD or Tesla
got a lot more attention from the
market, but EV buses is really a tiny
segment. Globally only hundreds of
thousands bus being sold versus tens of
millions of cars. So, because exactly to
your early point about China prolonged
down cycle, that's also why the market
kind of like just give up on the China
EV buses, think it's really bad, but the
company is actually enjoy recovery in
terms of replacement demand in China,
but more importantly that's really the
80% earning coming from overseas market,
which is at a start point of the secular
growth. Mhm.
What's the risk to your thesis and what
are you watching to watch for any sort
of developments if that risk is is is
coming to fruition? Yeah. I think like
probably two risk we are really on top
of our mind. Number one is about the
ongoing execution and operation because
we all know the input cost is going
higher among the auto supply chain this
year whether that's a lithium the
battery the raw materials the metals so
good thing for this company because they
have export revenue so they able to
raise price in export market to offset
the cost increase so just from the first
quarter results they raise their gross
profit margin by five points so it's a
margin expansion story despite the cost
inflation. And the second risk is really
about the geopolitical risk right so
it's a exporter
but this company they sell to over 60
countries
but there's a one country they don't
sell to. US? Yes exactly
>> [laughter]
>> so we don't so we don't need to worry
about that yes. But there's still going
I mean there's still frictions in in
Europe now about EV cars I mean do you
foresee the same when it comes to EV
buses?
>> Yeah so that's exactly what market got
confused with the EV cars and EV bus so
European country they did impose a tax
on the EV like cars but they actually
deliberately excluded EV bus because EV
bus is so tiny it doesn't really matter
it's not a target for politicians.
Okay the so your fund is
about 20 to 30 stocks?
>> Exactly. Most of them either have very
little or no sell side coverage is that
accurate? Some sell side coverage but I
think the coverage probably have the
wrong number in terms of their forecast.
Okay so how do you how do you get how do
you get your information then? Yeah so
for us it's really about like
underground coverage and also through
the cycle monitoring of the business and
also active dialogue with the company
management so in this example of Yutong
we've been only in this stock for three
years now and we're still a buyer here.
Can you tell us some other themes in the
fund right now that maybe the market is
overlooking right now? Yeah I wouldn't
say market is overlooking but we are
also incredibly excited about AI as you
can imagine so we do think China offers
a very unique value proposition for AI
like versus US so China's probably the
only country outside US have this closed
loop ecosystem. So, that's everything
from the model, the home-grown talents,
to the infrastructure, the power, and
also semiconductor fabrication, whether
it's on the logic side or the memory
side. So, all of research work will
cover the entire stack for AI, but given
the rising capex, as you know, where we
position today is mostly picks and
shovels. But, within picks and shovels,
as GPU had a strong run, memory and the
CPU, so we are really looking for what's
the next supply chain bottleneck. So,
for example, that's the optics
opportunity coming from a data center
interconnect. That's some niche devices
and components in a data center power
management, or some of the materials and
chemicals being used in advanced
packaging.
All right, the next bottleneck and next
hidden gems. Chris, it's great to have
you. Thanks so much for joining us
there. Chris Joe, founder and chief
investment officer at Stillbrook
Capital. Coming up, we'll be back live
at the JP Morgan Global China Summit in
Shanghai with co-head of global banking,
Filipa Gori, who says it's shaping up to
be a vintage year for deal making. That
exclusive conversation is next.
Let's head back to the JP Morgan Global
China Summit in Shanghai for more on how
the bank is reacting to not just what
macro markets are doing, but
geopolitical uncertainties. Has us there
with our next guest. Has.
Well, that's right, Von. We talk about,
you know, all the geopolitical
uncertainties, yet markets back risk on
today. The volatility right there. Let's
get exclusively to Filipa Gori, co-head
of global banking at JP Morgan. Good to
have you back in the region. Thank you
very much. It's a pleasure, always.
[laughter]
Filipa, I mean, we talk about the
uncertainties in the world. Has that
fundamentally changed the way your
clients think. Surprisingly not.
When you and I met in Davos, there was
the whole enthusiasm for
how 2026 will would pan out. And to a
certain extent, it has delivered in in
that in that sense of I look from a pure
banking standpoint, volumes
wallet is up
year-to-date around 30% and
notwithstanding all the potential
geopolitical headwinds and and so and so
forth.
Clients still
are engaging in deal making
opportunities
creating new companies and so on and so
forth. So
the year remains exceptionally positive.
But markets underpricing risk, you've
said that before and they continue to
be.
There is a concern that the markets are
pricing for perfection.
And
and it's a theme that you hear when you
go around the world. I was in Europe
last week and and in Asia this week.
People are
looking around and say, is this is this
too perfect? Um it do So there is a
little bit of a theme that people are
asking, what about inflation? Is that as
Jamie said this can kill the party? Is
there something there that could come
and surprise people? So a little bit of
that concern does exist. In terms of the
growth markets, the last time we spoke
you were bullish Middle East. Of course,
the situation there has changed
somewhat.
It remains fundamentally the Middle East
remains an incredible growth story for
the firm and and more globally.
There are a variety of different reasons
why the Middle East will in in our
opinion will remain important
notwithstanding
the current problems.
Yes, of course, you will need things
will need to settle down and there will
be a period there where things will need
to recover, but we remain ex-
exceptionally positive on that part of
the world, as well as the rest of Asia,
obviously. How about the rest of the
world, right? I mean, when you take a
look at activity, it does seem like when
it comes to deals, outbound flows from
Asia, from the Middle East to the US,
do you think that is sustainable given
where we are right now?
>> It It It It definitely remains a theme
that and it's also a European to the US.
Uh you see that the rest of the world is
looking at that fantastic engine of
growth, which is the US economy.
And most CEOs, most companies, they they
the question they often ask is how do I
become part of that incredible engine,
which is the US economy. So, that
looking
uh west still does take place.
Um
Asia is booming, too.
Uh we are in China, what's happening
with Hong Kong, China is super exciting,
too, but people still look at the US,
too. What is super exciting? About the
>> In Hong Kong and China, why?
>> Well, you look at the equity capital
markets of Hong Kong and China have been
uh booming this year. If you think about
uh global equities,
uh Asia China represents around uh a
third of the of the volumes have been
raised so far in in both volumes and
also number of IPOs, which is
it it's remarkable, and if you see the
activity, you feel that there is a sense
of excitement coming from this part of
the world. The world lived a few years
when when I when I was when I was still
living in the region, where it went
through a period of slow down, but we
have recovered with multiples, and the
excitement is is truly palpable, and at
this event, when you have more than
3,000 delegates, is is incredible. Um We
were just in Beijing last week
for with Trump-Xi summit.
>> Yeah. It does seem like there's some
stabilization in bilateral relations.
Might that translate to more activities?
I agree.
And the fact that the the summit took
place is in itself very good news.
And
there is a sense of de-escalation, which
we of course support
as a firm, and that will be positive for
deal making. Yes. And you talk about
deal making, there are certain sectors
which are thriving more than others. AI
is one. Yep. Um how are we looking at
that in terms of the risks involved? I
mean, this this perpetual debate of
AI capex.
So
it is a topic that is heavily discussed
in the US, but AI is for real and
it it does change. It's a giant leap of
mankind in terms of revolution of what
we can and
cannot do. So it's there to stay.
The investments are definitely important
and what they will create also social in
terms of
changes to the labor force is important
too, but it's something like it's there
to stay and we need to we need to be
prepared for it.
>> And how are you looking at the capex? We
just had Nvidia out with earnings, met
expectations. You know, market's still a
bit disappointed. When you take a look
at the capex, plans are intact. Three to
four trillion dollars. That's
inflationary.
I I would agree with you. Yes. So the
longer term impact of productivity
growth that will come out of
AI will be deflationary,
but in the short term the capex and the
build out that is happening around data
center and and some of the other
affiliated topics
has to be inflationary.
Still in the end, you're pretty
optimistic about the business. How are
you positioning corporate banking in uh
So, we keep on growing uh
both globally and in Asia Pacific. We
are keeping investing in bankers, having
covering more corporates, uh more
bankers onshore in in all the countries
that that we operate in in the region.
This is an an It's a region that is very
close to my heart, having spent uh 12
years here. And and it's a region that
it keeps on growing enormously. And if
you look at the head count, for
instance, in the mainland, it's it over
the last 8 years. Revenues have grown
20% per annum over the last 2 years. So,
that growth of this part of the world is
palpable and we will keep investing in
this part of the
>> And planning to hire more? Yes. How many
more? Where? Come on, Filippo. The The
The part of the region is that is uh
interesting globally is, of course, the
mainland, Hong Kong,
um China,
uh sorry, the mainland, Hong Kong,
Japan.
Uh these are There is a lot going on.
M&A, defense, and activism in Japan,
equities, Hong Kong, China. So, there is
more that we can do in in in the
>> So, hiring more in these markets, just
to be fair. Okay, Filippo, good having
you with us. Filippo Gori, go ahead of
global banking at JP Morgan. David,
handing it back to you.
Yep, and we'll hand it back to you in a
me uh couple of minutes. A lot more
coming up there, of course, with Haas
over the next few hours here in
Bloomberg TV, speaking exclusively with
the bank's chairman and CEO. Yep, Jamie
Dimon will be joining us
uh at those times on your screens and,
of course, many others as well coming
throughout of the Global China Summit
there
uh in the mainland. All right, uh we'll
leave you with a glance at markets, a
bull in and outside a China shop. This
is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Well, that's rare. For once, economists
in Australia have this jobs number
largely
on target. Um so, you know, cheers. Um
what what what's the most popular baby
in Open up a can of Fosters. There we
go. Uh 1.7% to the upside. Joining the
market Sorry, joining the overall rally.
And of course,
the drop in bond yields across the
region is also contributing to what
you're seeing on your screens. This
again a moment in the sunlight
across the tech space. Samsung's
managing to avoid that managed to avoid
based on some reports there.
Uh that strike. Uh obviously, there's
the Nvidia earnings. There's the SpaceX
story. OpenAI separately as it pertains
to SoftBank. So, it's it's all guns
blazing here for tech. Yeah, plenty for
you to chew on here beyond just the
Nvidia story, right? Which, you know, it
seems like still wasn't enough to
deliver uh for most investors. But Asia
is still liking those earnings here just
given what we heard about the AI
buildout, the demand picture, everything
from Jensen Huang, and really this whole
sea change around not just hyperscalers,
but you're talking about robotics as the
next sort of uh part of the whole AI
cycle here, right? According to Jensen
Huang. CSI 300, there you go. We're
seeing gains here. We're now punching
about more than 1% higher here. Hang
Seng is around the 25,750
level in terms of your agenda here
today. We talked about some of those uh
when it comes to mining restrictions
around uh critical minerals. We'll flush
that out and what that possibly means.
Chip certainly is still front and
center. We're talking about the JP
Morgan China Summit as well. Earnings
including Neo and NetEase. Uh southbound
flows we're tracking as well. And of
course, there's some inflation data out
of Hong Kong today. Yeah, that's going
to be interesting. Inflation um and
looking at of course, things [music]
like power inflation, which should be
reflective of the pop in oil prices. We
have lots more on the way in the second
[music] hour of the China show
coming up next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300 a half hour into the
session. It looks like we are [music]
also heading higher here today. 1 and
1/2% gains on your CSI 300. ChiNext is
doing a little bit better with 2% uh
gains here right now. It It's still not
doing as well relatively speaking to the
rest of the region here just given the
news on Samsung, given the news on this
Nvidia uh earnings as well. So, I'll be
interesting to note though uh what
really happens to the whole supply
chain. Uh Samsung really, the news that
they have heard destructively is
helping. I think Nvidia, the whole
supply chain here in Asia is liking
those results too. And then the
commentary from Jensen Huang. It
absolutely. And the fact that they're
now more transparent in some of the
growth areas outside, of course, of the
hyperscalers, which not as you know, a
lot of people would kill for just a
hyperscaler business, let alone uh some
of the the green fields and blue oceans
that Nvidia has now laid out. Uh so,
that's playing out. There's the Samsung
story and perhaps averting, of course,
that strike. That's also playing out
across these markets. And of course,
there's OpenAI and and and and SpaceX in
separate ways are also
separate ways just to underscore that
they're rivals, but also obviously
separately as far as some of their uh
stakeholders are concerned in the Asia
Pacific. Samsung's up six. Uh Taiwan is
up 3 and 1/2% within the Kospi index, 6
and 1/2% there. Uh and of course,
SoftBank is one we'll talk about later
on. In the FX market, it's one where
it's been quiet of late uh with the
exception, I guess, of Indonesia, which
reacted, by the way, yesterday already
to that larger move.
>> 50 basis points.
>> 50 bits, right? I like Indonesia.
Uh but apart from that, oh, dollar
Korea, okay, we're seeing a little bit
weakness there coming through there.
Okay, let's Why don't we get more
context uh on these markets?
>> Yeah, let's bring in our team. Bloomberg
Markets Reporter Anthony Stevens is here
and in Singapore, we have our rates and
emerging markets macro strategist Marcus
Wong. Uh Anthony, I'll start with you.
Ha- Has the runway been cleared now for
this AI tech rally to take flight again?
>> Yeah, so the geopolitical kind of skies
have cleared, right? You saw oil drop 5%
overnight. Yield move has kind of
moderated a little bit, and we are back
to real tech fundamentals. And there's a
lot of good news, right? You have
Samsung early resolving their labor
issues, and then you have the Nvidia
kind of earnings call was more important
to the rest of the world than Nvidia
itself. They highlight a thing that
they've started to call the second
category. Uh so, physical AI, robotics,
and Asia has been up in front of that
stuff, right? So, you saw uh LG uh LG
Electronics in Korea is up double
digits. Uh Hyundai, we're not talking
about like the normal tech rally, right?
It's really broadening out in Asia, and
even in Tai- in Taiwan, where you see
the index is up three, there's a lot of
stocks that are limit up on the GPU CPU
theme. So, it's really getting into the
weeds now, and Asia wants to do that.
The The local retail investors have been
doing that for weeks on end. They just
want the macroeconomic noise to stop so
that they can continue to chase these
tech themes higher. Yeah, and I think,
Anthony, we're showing some of those
names uh on the screen. So, underscore
for us, why is that a good thing that
Nvidia is now saying,
you know, everyone looks at our
hyperscaler business, but look at this
new gem, look at this new toy?
And it's it comes down to how the
different ways of AI are evolving,
right? So, you have the LLM models, then
you have people who are looking at
building LLM processing on chips, then
you have like specific physical AI
chips. So, you're starting to see a
broadening of applications of AI. Each
of those are throwing off chip making
opportunities, revenue opportunities,
and also the kind of components that go
on those chips that helped our one,
right? So, as I was joking with Haslinda
yesterday, you're starting to need a
electrical engineering degree to follow
this rally, but the skillset is there in
Asia. We have a lot of electrical
engineering degrees in [laughter] this
part of the world, right? And local
retail is really on top of that.
We have to be get more on top of it.
Yeah. Well, we have we have AI to do
that, too. Exactly. To to fake our
electrical engineering degrees. I'm
going to go back to school.
Um
Marcus, I want to get to you. I mean,
obviously, you know, Anthony says we got
we can kind of toss the macro
uncertainties aside, but then again, I
take a look at what BI did yesterday,
and the Indonesian Central Bank with
that go big sort of mentality, right? A
50 basis point hike was surprised the
market. I think only one economist
foresaw this to try to stem the losses
that we've seen multiple lows for the
rupiah. Was it enough, do you think, to
really stem the declines?
Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, you know, unlike um South Korea,
North Asia,
Indonesia that doesn't have the benefit
of AI and you know, that this tech
supercycle. So, unfortunately, you know,
yesterday what we saw is Bank Indonesia,
well, you know, going all orthodox,
hiking 50 basis points. And interesting,
as you pointed out, there's only one
economist out of 41 surveyed by
Bloomberg that was expecting it. I think
going to the decision decision, right?
Um
you know, analysts were against there
was actually a sizable minority where it
was actually calling for even BI to
hold. Uh you know, pointing that you
know, inflation wasn't really out of
control yet. Inflation pressures weren't
weren't like, you know, what we've seen
in Philippines. Um so, there wasn't in a
sense, you could argue that you know,
there was a the balance of risk was
two-way uh going to the BI decision, but
you know, they surprised everyone at a
50 basis point rate hike. And what it
signals is really, you know, how urgent,
you know, BI sees the need to, you know,
defend the rupiah. Um they've done a a
host of things, you know, you know, if
you look at the SRBI rupiah bills, um
what the whole invention of these bills
was essentially to defend the rupee and
we see we saw a massive issuance since
April
you know as they sought to defend defend
the rupee and as a result of that the
RBI yields you know the 12-month yields
actually rose to a one-year high.
In spite of all this in spite of their
smart interventions as they call it
rupee as you pointed out have continued
to fall to repeated you know all-time
lows.
So I think investors out there you know
analysts out there you know see there's
definitely still downsides for the
rupee. You know they have you know
announced different initiatives you know
most recently you know trying to curtail
you know the exporters and
commodity exporters but honestly in the
market out there I think it's the big
question is just how much lower can the
rupee go from this point
hence forth.
Marcus thank you Marcus Wong there
joining us from our rates and EM macro
strategist team there from M Live and
then of course Anthony Stevens our
markets a reporter. On more of the
Nvidia story let's bring in Marabelle
Lopez founder and principal analyst at
Lopez Research. Marabelle it's great. I
mean Asia certainly is feeling the
positive effects from these Nvidia
earnings but I think for for investors
that hold the stock I mean it doesn't
seem like anything sort of impresses
them anymore not even this big buyback
not even a dividend not even this news
of you know really the AI cycles
shifting to physical AI now. But for you
what stood out to you from these
earnings?
I think everybody keeps expecting an
additional rabbit to be pulled out of
the hat and we're actually at a state of
the market where you know we're in the
80 billion dollar category. Nvidia is
actually the top of the market so I
think that is the issue that we're
seeing right now is people are actually
looking to see will anybody challenge
Nvidia and is this the end of the run?
Jensen used words like parabolic. I
think we haven't seen the agentic AI
wave really kick in for enterprises.
We've seen a lot of investment from
hyperscalers as noted earlier. Um but I
think people are saying, "Okay, how much
more can they outperform?" And they're
doing well, but I think there was an
expectation that was perhaps a bit
unrealistic about what type of
outperformance one could do given how
much capital spend is already happening
in the marketplace.
Yeah, and maybe just to pick up on if we
could maybe close the close the loop on
on that. You know, investors, while
largely bullish, have started to talk
about early signs of maybe erosion
to Nvidia's dominance. Is there any sign
at all of that happening?
It's still early days. I think one of
the things that people forget is that
these are actually multi-year
commitments. So, while we've seen some
very strong momentum by companies like
AMD, uh it still takes a while to
actually get a strong foothold in
hyperscalers and neo clouds. And so,
this is one of the things that Nvidia
has continued to do well. Uh not only
have they had good designs one year,
they continue to have increasingly good
designs. They're building a very strong
ecosystem. So, there's not a lot of
reason to leave them with the exception
of price. So, that seems to be one of
the things. It's like, "Can you get a
better price performance ratio?" So,
we're starting to see that there's some
opportunity for people to get a toehold,
but maybe not to have a full shift from
out of Nvidia and into something else.
Um in terms of just overall
I mean, it seems like
Jensen Huang was trying to really
paint a different picture, right? Of
where we are in this AI cycle, right?
It's not just the hyperscalers. I know
they get most of their revenue still
from data centers, but this is more
about physical AI, about, you know,
robotics, about automation, and
mobility, and the like. Um how exciting
do you think that that part of the story
is for for Nvidia right now.
Yeah, so I think this is a long game and
a short game discussion. I think in the
long game physical AI is wonderful and
that we'll see a lot of robotics and
that it will be pervasive, but it is not
something that you're going to see in
the next two to three quarters and I
think that's where some of the lack of
enthusiasm comes into it because that
means that in the short run what you're
really looking at over say the coming
year is how much more money could this
agentic AI wave add into it and I feel
that the market has considered that
they've already priced that into the
market and that the physical AI side,
you know, when you're looking at
physical AI, these are not cheap
products either, right? So, they're
going into manufacturing, they're going
into healthcare, they're going into life
sciences, you know, they're not going
into people's homes today, right? So,
this is not a broad scale market. It's
still a certain set of sectors that are
still going to have to pay a very
significant price for physical AI in the
short term. So, there's a bit of a
disconnect between what the vision
statement was, which I do think in the
long run is going to work out for them,
and what people expect will happen over
the next say three to five quarters.
And what is the What is the potential
scale of the CapEx on that side? On the
hyperscaler side, these are the world's
biggest companies. I look at a balance
sheets, I look at the capacity to borrow
and raise money and somehow the CapEx
that they put in doesn't seem to be
unreasonable, unwarranted, or
unattainable if you think about it that
way, but on On the other side, physical
AI, how much spend do you think will be
on the table there?
You
You know, the the physical AI side, I
think it's a little hard to handicap in
the sense that it's not a similar thing.
So, so what happens is with physical AI,
a lot of times that is something that
allows you to scale your production as a
company. Whereas when you look at the
hyperscalers, it's like, yes, I will buy
AI, but I will also sell AI, right? So,
it the the question is can you sell
physical AI the same way that you sell
AI so you buy it and sell it. It's not
quite the same equation that we're
looking at. And I think therein lies the
challenge with the quarterly revenue in
the short term. It could be on the same
scale as the hyperscalers, but the
economics might not it look the same and
therefore it might take longer to
happen.
That's interesting. And stupid might be
a stupid question. Is that the same
product? Has Nvidia had a product for
that category? Or cutting edge product?
World-beating For physical AI I think
they've done tremendous work in terms of
and and there are multiple stages of
physical AI. That's the other thing I
think people don't recognize. Um, you
know, physical AI doesn't necessarily
have to go all the way um to robotics.
So, there's a good scale of business
that's in physical AI that's talking
about how do we do simulations and
digital twins and all of that is
actually uh could be considered part of
the physical AI category and then you
get all the way to advanced robotics
that could be in a manufacturing plant,
could be in logistics, could be in a
home. So, there there's definitely
different waves of physical AI that
they're going to capitalize on over the
course of time. And then the question is
how much money is in each of those
waves? And what kind of gains do the
companies get from buying this? So, if
you're a manufacturing company, like how
much more efficient do you have to be to
invest in physical AI? So, that's I
think the thing that's on the table as a
question right now. Like when does that
cross over for someone? And how
difficult is that? And then a lot of the
other things we haven't discussed is the
energy utilization for all this, which
is quite significant particularly as you
look at the global landscape.
Yeah, we haven't even hit the whole what
does it mean for the grid, Maribel. Um,
I I want to switch to another top story
today, which is of course the
announcement of the SpaceX IPO. I mean,
there's been a lot of rumblings of this,
much anticipated. They're talking about
a valuation about two trillion. Maribel,
these these are quite shocking numbers.
Do you think these numbers are
justified?
I I think everybody right now, given the
amount of investment that's been put in
all these markets, you know, it seems
like your opening bid for anything is,
you know, 900 billion. So, it doesn't
surprise me that we're looking
[laughter] at
2 trillion.
So, if you look at Anthropic, if you
look at OpenAI, if you look at SpaceX,
you know, the the vision of the future
is that it will be very different and
that these will be the mega powerhouses.
These will be uh the Microsofts, the
Apples, the Googles of the next
generation. So, I think that's where we
get these kind of numbers when we're
looking at it. And the spend to get
there is dramatically different than
what we've seen in these previous
generations of technology. It used to be
at one point you could spend millions,
maybe a billion, and get somewhere. And
now we're talking, you know, if you even
look at hyperscaler spending on AI, it
was like 200 billion, Meta 145 billion.
And that's just off AI, that's not even
like build and scale it, right? So,
that's what we're looking at right now.
And and what about I'm not sure how much
you look at the ecosystem outside the US
and, you know, obviously a big part of
that is China and what they're doing and
their
so sort of parallel system end-to-end.
They're trying to achieve that, of
course, when it comes to AI.
I just want to I wonder what your broad
thoughts on these two parallel stories.
Yeah, so I think what's happening in the
space, which is really fascinating news,
one of the things that I think is
creating a drag on some of the US stocks
and the enthusiasm is that there is an
assumption, a very valid assumption,
that the revenue that we might have
expected out of Asia may not, in fact,
materialize at the rate that we thought
it would materialize. You know, you've
seen this in Nvidia earnings in terms of
what it was going to be able to do in
China and if it could do anything in
China. We've seen a very strong chip
ecosystem come in China. We've seen uh
strong models that are being built in a
global environment. So, I think what
we're moving is particularly as there's
been a movement towards sovereign AI,
there's definitely been a discussion
about can we grow, build, and distribute
within a region in a more meaningful
way. And I think that actually has the
ability to break the concept of
dominance of any specific regions for a
long-standing period of time. And I
think that's some of what we're starting
to see in really the enthusiasm that
you've seen in the stocks this week in
Asia-Pac.
Maribel, it's great to have you. Thanks
for staying up for us. Maribel Lopez
there, founder and principal analyst at
Lopez Research. Still ahead on the China
show, we're talking AI and robotics.
Yeah, no surprise. With the co-founder
and CEO of Alorica, a startup [music]
focused on visual reasoning. You don't
want to miss that one. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Let's head back to the JP [music] Morgan
Global China Summit in Shanghai, where
Haslinda is standing by with our next
guest, a former Google DeepMind research
scientist who's starting his own AI
firm. Has a pretty timely topic.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, that's right. And also, this
actually is an AI startup focusing
specifically on visuals. Let's speak
with Andrew Ng, co-founder and CEO at
Alorica. Good to have you with us,
Andrew. Thanks, Haslinda. Great to be
here. And this visual AI, I mean, this
is not something that's been a priority,
but you say it's time to get into it.
Yeah, that's right. Visual AI has kind
of been underserved. Um, I would say
there's so much going on in coding and
math, and the models are advancing very
quickly there. But in spite of that, uh,
visual reasoning is still working at
kind of the level of a preschooler. So,
uh, these um I would say elementary
school kids, they can do these things at
a 3-year-old, you say? Yeah, three or
four or so. And and just to be sure,
when you talk about visuals, we're
talking about, you know, sectors like
architecture.
Yeah, architecture and engineering. Uh
you can imagine like CAD CAM
understanding these like technical
diagrams.
Uh also there's areas like construction,
agriculture. Uh a lot of actual um
people say that white-collar work is
going to go away, but a lot of that is
actually visual work. Work on diagrams
or work like looking at crops and
understanding what's going on uh with
with some disease.
>> But why is it important and how would
visual AI help expedite perhaps the
whole process?
Um yeah, so a lot of these current uh
use cases are being covered with
traditional AI methods like CNNs or uh
traditional kind of like visual
classifiers object recognition. Uh so
they don't have the capabilities of um
say reasoning, the textual reasoning
that these uh current models have. So,
we are developing models that have
visual reasoning that can reason in the
visual space and bring in these
reasoning capabilities to these
traditional more uh more dumber CNN type
models. And and really what is your edge
in this? Is it about proprietary data or
is it about training? What is it you
bring to the table? Yeah, great question
for a startup. Um well, to begin with,
we we have a great world-class team. So,
our team has decades of experience on
frontier models. Uh we have a
>> that team? And from what I gather, you
you had 12 people
before? Uh yeah, now we're 17. Uh also
people, we're growing rapidly.
Um with yeah, a ton of experience. So,
we're going to uh essentially uh build
um we're essentially building
proprietary data sets. We're sourcing
them, we're generating them ourselves.
We're also making changes to the model
architecture to uh the our algorithms.
So, we're building a specialized model
for visual reasoning uh all the way
through. It is a pretty niche area. I'm
just wondering whether you see
competition coming up. I mean, as you
gain more customers, chances are people
see the potential and they'll come on
board as well. How do you view the
competition? How difficult is it to to
go into this field? Yeah, the AI market
is very competitive. As you know,
there's open source models and closed
source models. But so for us it's very
important to move very quickly. So we
founded this company in December. We're
already some of these also people and we
plan to have a model that's state of the
art very soon. And that allows us to
stay at the cutting edge. At the at the
same time we're talking to potential
customers, potential partners who can
work with us closely to develop better
and better models over time. Still in
talks with potential customers. Have you
secured any customers? And who exactly
are you in touch with? So we're
currently in touch with some video
companies, some entertainment companies
and some robotics companies. So Here in
China? Where are they?
>> No, these are in the US. In California.
And there we're talking to them about
how we can do pilots with them, how we
can do data exchanges so we can really
build models that are useful for their
visual tasks. How soon do you think you
might secure these customers? What are
the indications so far?
I think the indications so far are
pretty positive. There's a lot of legal
paperwork especially for a new company
that we are working our way waiting our
way through. So hopefully in the in the
next few weeks we we can have an
agreement. Andrew, given that it is such
a niche space, I'm just wondering how
you are in terms of talent recruitment.
Where are you with that? You were from
12 to 17 and as you look to grow, I
imagine you you need more manpower.
Yeah, so recruitment I found is very
different from being at a company like
DeepMind which I was at for 12 years.
Now it's a lot about um
selling the vision, uh selling the
research vision, and I've had all that
uh type of research experience. So,
uh people people know my experience in
the field, and and they come because of
that. Uh but also, I think there's a lot
of people who are getting a bit tired of
all the focus on coding and math, and
they believe that AI can be more than
just coding uh and math, and it can be
um and we should be making much bigger
steps uh towards like getting things at
the level of human capabilities, and
multimodal visual reasoning is one of
those where there's so much potential,
so much more work to be done.
>> it been challenging getting the right
talent on board?
Um I'd say it's a it's a mix. We've
we've had some uh a lot of success um in
the last few weeks after we came out of
stealth. Um so, we came out of stealth
like a a few weeks ago with $55 million
in funding uh from um some partners, uh
Striker Ventures, Menlo Ventures, and
Automata.
Um and that has really helped us uh
accelerate. So, people look at that, and
they see that the conviction these uh
well-known investors have in us, and
that really helps bring them on board. I
also understand that you've been
approached for new funding. Yes or no?
Uh yes. Yes, I have. Okay, perfect.
Andrew Ng, co-founder and CEO at the AI
startup Illuin. Of course, the AI
conversation continues, and we're of
course we're looking for more
conversations with uh the boss himself
at JP Morgan, David.
Yep, that is coming up very shortly. So,
to our viewers, stay tuned of course for
that conversation with Haslinda Amin on
the ground. Jamie Dimon joins us in
a short while. Tony Maher, this is
Bloomberg. [music]
Welcome back. I had a look at
>> [music]
>> Flow's data. Here's what's interesting,
right?
would you believe Korea and Taiwan have
both seen massive net outflows this
month. In fact, Korea's at 25 billion.
The only markets that have seen inflows
Japan. Flip the page, please. Uh and
that just underscores the AI story and
who's participating in the rally. Uh
Japan inflows,
Indonesia inflows, and Thailand. The
rest of the region,
outflows. Um and we're looking at Yep,
SoftBank, of course, on the back of the
tech story and Asian building-related
stocks on the back of this Okay,
uh regulatory tailwinds coming through
out of the United States. And yep,
that's playing out across the region,
which is I guess in some ways also
uh painting a good picture of what's
happening in Oz today, which is joining
this rally overall in the region. Yeah,
so it seems like all signs point to
higher when it comes to not just the
tech trade here today, but certainly uh
you're seeing risk sentiment improve
substantially here just after this
Nvidia results here. Uh also, when it
comes to, of course, Samsung, Verizon,
that's right. We talk about all this
good news when it comes to tech here.
[music] Uh certainly is lifting the mood
Yeah. quite a bit here today, despite
the fact that Nvidia shares didn't
really do a whole lot. But yeah, we got
plenty more to come.
This is Bloomberg.
Well, 2:29 a.m. in Tokyo, Japanese
markets [music] are heading to that
lunch break in just a moment. And yeah,
I think for once we're not talking about
the JGB market and really this sell-off
when it comes to bonds, right? We're
pretty stable when it comes to the JGB
10-year yield here. And really, a lot of
the conviction is back in the equity
market. We talk about SoftBank uh seeing
double-digit gains here on the back of
those Open AI, you know, IPO news, SB
Energy IPO news. So, that certainly is
lifting a lot of the tech trade in Tokyo
here. Topix is also up some 2%. There is
news also of that extra budget and maybe
some details from local media as well.
So, certainly, there's a lot going on in
Japan right now. Yeah, I think TBS is
reporting around 3 trillion as far as
that extra budget is concerned. I'm
actually just looking at the story
and I realize I can't read Japanese. So,
I guess we will just wait for the
translation to come in and just to fill
to fill in the blanks. Asia-Pacific, 2
and 1/2% to the upside. We're doing
well.
So, on this tech story that you want
pointed out, so we talked about Nvidia
and Samsung.
The other pillars to the AI story the
tech story today to be more specific
is this much awaited listing of SpaceX
and potentially OpenAI
later later this year. In fact, why
don't we get to those stories today?
>> Yes, SpaceX has filed publicly for what
could be the largest ever IPO targeting
a valuation above $2 trillion.
The documents also reveal a net
quarterly loss of more than $4 billion.
Let's bring in April Hong. She joins us
now with the details. So, what are we
learning about the SpaceX filing?
Yeah, it's a glimpse into the financials
of the world's biggest private company,
right? So, yeah, we are seeing how its
revenues have been rising including for
the first quarter coming in about $4.7
billion, but it's really
a scenario of how revenues are not
keeping pace with its expenses and it's
spending big on both AI computer
infrastructure, but also launch
infrastructure. So, for its Starship
rocket project, it's already splashed
out $15 billion. You compare this to
what Elon Musk had been projecting about
7-8 years ago that this would cost
between two to $10 billion. And on
computer infrastructure and on its AI
front, it's also spending. There's a
cash burn for xAI following on from the
merger just to keep Grok relevant. The
other thing that we've also been
learning is I think the sheer control
that Elon Musk is still going to have on
the company because based on the shares
that he currently owns, he'll still have
85.1%
in terms of voting power. So, it's going
to make it very difficult for public
investors to have sway or influence
governance. A couple of things that
these investors are going to have to
contend with. Of course, we know how
Goldman and Morgan Stanley are leading
the way for this deal. Bloomberg had
also previously reported that the
marketing could come as soon as about 2
weeks from now. Following that, we'll
get information on pricing and then
it'll start trading on the Nasdaq.
And maybe OpenAI is jostling for
attention and perhaps allocations here.
Not that they're happening at the same
time, but what do we know about OpenAI
and could that company be next?
Yeah, it could be next. I mean, it's
interesting for OpenAI because it's been
locked in this legal battle with Elon
Musk for more than 2 years now. And now
that's kind of cleared out of the way
because a judge threw out the trial. And
this was after Elon Musk had alleged
that the company was going against its
initial mission of public good by
becoming a for-profit company. So, with
these legal troubles out of the way, I
think OpenAI would be very eager to get
this IPO on the way. Sources are telling
Bloomberg that we could see confidential
filing in a matter of weeks. Could come
as soon as Friday. And the goal is for
it to go public in the last quarter of
this year. And the context here is the
rivalry with other other AI companies
given how Anthropic is also rushing,
racing to public markets. And this is
coming at a time when Anthropic seems to
be making a lot of headway. It could
turn a profit in this quarter just from
the sheer revenue jump, the popularity
of its AI agent tools among enterprise
customers as well. And if here the race
is really who gets to the public markets
first and secures these investors.
That's not to say that for OpenAI, there
aren't these challenges including
concerns about its growth after it
missed its own internal targets.
Yael, thank you so much for wrapping
that as well. So this race to become a
public company and of course the the the
agents behind that are the underwriters
and we The race within that, too.
>> The race within that, too, right? So the
likes of Morgan Stanley and Goldman,
some of them of course are underwriters
here, but there's a really good good
good story that we're we're
>> My favorite story in the
>> it. I mean the headline is just you it's
it's hard to beat the headline.
>> to the commitment that Goldman Sachs's
David Solomon went to try to, you know,
ink this this SpaceX IPO, right? The
fact that they were actually first after
Morgan Stanley in that IPO
filing, just goes to show, right? That
the apparently according to our sources,
he he and his team tried to work, you
know, and try to slide into Elon Musk's
DMs just to land this deal. And and this
story also talks about just he he
commits usually when he tries to kind of
lock these deals down. That's about
relationships, right? Banking is really
that and they were together in Beijing
last week. Yeah. Right? They were.
>> Yeah. Anyway, you can read about the
story and how maybe this uh the the race
to get the business is is fair game. I
mean, back in they said back during the
Lululemon IPO, he came into a meeting
all decked out in Lululemon. I mean,
commitment. Oh. To Sir David. Um yeah,
certainly a great piece to read there
about just the inner workings of course
of the banking world. Uh look, in terms
of Asian markets as we get to that
break, obviously there is this risk
rally that is underway here. We got
plenty [music] more also from the JP
Morgan conference uh in China as well.
Uh Greater China not doing as well
relatively speaking but with the Cosby
another 7% day. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Okay, tech stocks are rallying and yet
again the
uh the Starboard the Star 50 is is doing
well. The China's index outperforming uh
as well there. In fact, that's the
perfect segue to get it back to Shanghai
and the JP Morgan Global China Summit is
taking place and Haslinda is there with
her next guest. Has.
Well, that's right, Dave. It's not just
about the markets. It's also about
innovation. It's about AI. Let's speak
to So, Lenaert, APAC CEO and head of
banking at JP Morgan. So, good to have
you with us. It's a pleasure. The place
is abuzz with innovation and people
wanting to know, you know, where to
invest and put their money in AI. Yeah,
you're right. There's 3,000 people here.
Uh more than half are from abroad and
many of our our new visitors and I think
they're amazed by what they're hearing,
what they're seeing, the innovation here
in China across a number of sectors, AI,
clean tech, health care. You go on.
They're just amazed. So, I think that's
one big topic and we're also but equally
we're talking about all the things are
going on in the world and that uh the
market is kind of discounting at the
moment but could be officially quite
significant geopolitics,
uh indebtedness of countries. So, there
is two sides to the to the thing we're
trying to do here. Has sentiment
pivoted, shifted when it comes to the
Chinese market and, you know, investing
in the country?
Well, we know the government has worked
hard to continue to stimulate the
economy. Uh we see the innovation. So,
there's a lot of positive things that
have brought back investors into China.
There's also things that are still being
worked on the the real estate sector
slowly recovering, but it's taking time.
Consumer demand still nascent. So, there
are there's a mix of things, but I
overall feel that
investors have been pivoting back
because they see a lot of upside in
innovation that's going on in China.
Well, the question really is whether
China is running because the last time
we spoke, you said, you know, Asia can't
be at full speed if China isn't running.
Is China running?
China is running faster and faster.
>> [laughter]
>> And uh you've seen places like Hong Kong
benefit from that in all the activity
we've seen in the IPO market. So, yeah,
I think it's very encouraging story. I
think what's changed within the last 12
months since we last spoke is actually
Korea. There's been a lot of buzz in
Korea. The
sentiment to do with AI and and chips
and it goes beyond that as well. What
are you seeing on the ground?
Yeah, that is an
an incredible story. We've I compare it
a little bit to what happened in Japan.
Just the changes that the government
brought to governance, also to the
functioning of the capital markets. We
see those same actions in Korea and it's
really put the market on on fire. Now,
it's also
it's driven by all the needs that the
world has. That's in AI and all the
hardware behind that,
but it's also other sectors like
defense, shipbuilding. And Korea is
actually an amazing place to build those
things. So, where exactly are you seeing
deals because when you take a look at
the equity market in particular, right?
I mean, it's basically just a few stocks
that are driving the rally we're seeing
in the country. Yeah. Although, that's
not limited to Korea. We see the same in
the US, but
you're right and that is has pluses and
minuses, but one of the benefits has
been it's really opened up investors'
eyes to the other companies that are
there in Korea that maybe in the same
ecosystem, but maybe not so visible or
maybe in other industries that people
have also realized have a lot of upside.
And when you look at a lot of those
companies,
there's still a lot of upside. That's
actually why people continue to be
relatively positive on the market even
though it's rallied a long way.
You know, when it comes to Korea and the
Korean equity market, it's pretty much
driven by the retail investors. Retail
has played such a big role in not just
markets like Korea, but also the US now
about 60% and a market like India. Do
you see risks in retail driving up
markets right now?
Well, first I think capital markets are
critical for the health of a country.
So, you have to have healthy capital
markets. You see a high correlation
between the success of a country and the
strength of the capital market. And that
requires both institutional investors,
domestic institutional investors,
international institutional investors,
and retail. But anything as in life,
everything too much is not good. So,
some of that will have to balance out
over time. But there is a lot of
institutional cash in Korea that can be
invested. There is increased
international interest.
And similarly in place like India, you
see that balance moving over time. But
it's important, you're right, to make
sure that nothing is excessive. So,
India has taken a bit of a turn in the
past 1 year or so. It does seem like
foreign investors have been making exit
in such a huge way. Is the India story
intact? It's always been about growth,
but when you take a look at where the
currency right now,
it keeps testing new lows and the
currency reflects
Yeah, growth of the country.
Well, the India story in our minds is
intact because it's a multi-decade
secular growth story about a country
with 1.4 billion people,
you know, growing up and uh creating a
middle class, building out industries.
Uh so, I I think that's fully intact. Uh
but you're right, there are some, you
know, medium-term, short-term
complexities. And one of them is
essentially money flowing into countries
where
hardware is being made for all the
infrastructure build-out that's
happening. And that is not a sector
that's very dominant in India. So, and
then there's the issue that the
valuations haven't come down to a level
where international investors have been
enticed to come back. And you also write
about the currency. That is something
that investors are looking at. They want
to see stability in currencies.
But overall, by the way, currencies is a
big theme because with the increased
inflation around the world, you're
seeing a number of currencies sell off
quite quite aggressively. And and
central banks
from really hoping to cut rates now need
to be very cautious to fight inflation.
>> So, it's not just an India issue.
Talking about currencies, yes, we're
seeing weakness across the board in the
Indonesian rupee, in the Korean won, in
the Thai baht. Is that worrying for you?
I mean, might this be the catalyst for
something bigger?
Yeah. I think the underlying reason is
worrying. This is just a symptom of
what's going on. That's essentially a
world where inflation is going up
because of and being exacerbated by
what's happening in the Middle East. And
that's feeding through in fuel, but it
will be in shipping cost and other
aspects. So, that is fueling inflation.
And we already had some inflationary
pressures.
Just the overall indebtedness of
governments, the spending on
infrastructure. So, I do think that is
something we watch very closely. And
probably the most significant trigger
for further sell-off. When do you see,
I guess, a reversal in terms of
sentiment because a lot of attention, a
lot of capital is actually gravitating
towards the US now, away from the
region.
Yeah, and everyone's asking whether that
is for real and whether AI is for real
and is it really worth all that money
that's going in it and all these
valuations. There's definitely an
enormous amount of value in AI. So, it's
not like the dot-com where, you know,
you put dot-com behind your name and you
were worth a lot of money without a
business model. So, that that's not what
we're seeing. But it is fair to say that
the innovation that we've seen in the US
in that sector is enormous and it's
creating a lot of value and people want
to be part of it. And we have seen
companies including AI in their names
and doing really well. So, I'll leave it
there. So, Lena JP Morgan APAC CEO and
head of banking. Plenty more ahead for
our conversations here at the JP Morgan
Global China Summit. For now, Yvonne,
back to you.
Yeah, Haslin, come back to you soon.
More, of course, as she mentioned, from
that JP Morgan Global China Summit.
Coming up on Insight where Haslin speaks
exclusively with the bank's chairman
[music] and CEO, Jamie Dimon. This is
Bloomberg.
Welcome back. Here are some big stories
that we're following around the world
today. The US and Iran have traded
[music] threats of escalation even as
President Trump says the US is in the
final stages of the conflict. Iran's
President, Masoud Pezeshkian, posted on
[music] X that forcing surrender through
coercion is an illusion and calling for
mutual respect. [music]
Iran has also warned it would retaliate
beyond the Middle East if the US or
Israel renews [music] strikes.
Everything's gone. Their navy's gone.
Their air force is gone. Just about
everything.
You know, the only question is, do we go
and finish it up or are they going to be
signing a document? Let's see what
happens.
President Trump says he will speak with
Taiwan's President, Lai Ching-te, as
Washington weighs a $14 billion arms
sale to [music] the island. It comes
after Trump's summit with Xi Jinping
where the Chinese president warned
mishandling Taiwan [music]
could push the two powers toward
conflict. Trump earlier said he did not
make any commitments to Beijing [music]
about the pending sale.
China has cut government spending at its
fastest pace in 6 months in April,
contributing to an unexpected slowdown
[music] in the economy. Bloomberg
calculations show a broad measure of
public expenditure fell 7.3% from a year
ago while fiscal revenues rose [music]
2%. Beijing is still expected to ramp up
though infrastructure investment this
year to support growth.
Beijing plans to impose mining [music]
controls on certain strategic minerals
to ensure supply security. State media
says the rules will take effect from
[music] June 15th, allowing caps on
total output and mining operators, plus
foreign investment reviews on national
security grounds. Officials did not
specify [music]
which minerals will be affected.
Okay, let's stay on the same general and
broader theme here. So, you might have
seen this. So, Indonesian President
Prabowo Prabowo Subianto
announced the creation of this new state
entity effectively that's going to be
under folded under the the wealth fund
Nusantara to oversee, here's the point,
commodity exports. And sources are
telling us that the move has shocked
some of the president's even own his own
officials. Let's bring in out of Jakarta
Eddie Spence, our commodities reporter,
has more details on the story for us.
And Eddie, fantastic reporting.
Why don't we get started with what the
market impact will likely be? So, we're
talking things like nickel, palm oil,
coal. What are you hearing in as far as
market reaction could be, if not
already?
Well, actually the market reaction so
far has been fairly muted to this, and
that's partly just because frankly the
the actual details on this policy is
still very vague. The impact could
actually be quite enormous when we
consider the fact that Indonesia is the
biggest exporter of thermal coal,
nickel, and palm oil. And
particularly the kind of relevance of
these commodities has only been
heightened by the Iran war recently.
Coal is obviously a potential
replacement for natural gas coming out
of the strait. So, anything that impacts
the flow of coal out of Indonesia could
have kind of magnified knock-on effects
at this point. But so far the market
reaction has been fairly muted, but over
the coming days we could see a lot of
volatility as traders try and
effectively position for the new risks
that this policy is created.
Yeah, tell us about those risks. Um, you
know, given that you say it might not be
clear what exactly the policy is right
now, what are we still missing here?
Well, frankly, um,
even people within the Indonesian
government right now fully don't fully
understand this policy. The speech that
was given by Prabowo Subianto yesterday
kind of sort of envisioned the creation
of almost like a state commodity trader
which would handle contracts for example
with the outside world. Um, that would
basically just entail growing, um,
growing state control over these
commodity flows.
Um, and
what we've seen with Indonesia in the
past is that they're very happy to
intervene in trade uh, to attempt to
kind of influence prices. So, there's
the possibility that we could see, you
know, shipments held back in order to,
uh,
boost prices. We could see, uh,
shipments held back in order to try and
uh, tamper down domestic prices which is
has been a a common thing uh, over the
years in Indonesia. We saw it back in
2022 uh, during the
uh, Ukraine war when energy prices shot
up. So, effectively it entails more
state control or should at least entail
more state control of these exports
which inherently kind of magnifies the
potential for them to be intervened on
and disrupted. And because these
commodity flows are so big, I mean, they
total to about 65 billion when you
account for all three of those
commodities uh, we just mentioned. Uh,
the the global impact could be
potentially very severe, but it's still
too early to say exactly what uh, this
policy will entail.
Mhm.
Ed, Eddie, just take us behind the
scenes. What do we know about how
I think the idea came up? Was the
motivation simply to
bolster
state coffers for example on the back of
his booming seeing obviously in global
commodity prices.
What What do we know about what happened
behind the scenes here?
Well, the the intention of this policy
is to crack down on something called
under-invoicing. It's effectively where
you export something, but the
declaration you make to the government
is that its value is less than it
actually is, which basically allows you
to shift some of those profits offshore
and avoid taxation in Indonesia. Shift
them off offshore to a lower taxation
jurisdiction.
That That's the declared aim of this
policy. Uh however, the issue with the
way it's come about is that it appears
that even many of the most senior people
in the Indonesian government did not see
it coming. This is something which has
come directly from the president and his
closest inner circle. The sovereign
wealth fund that we've heard so much
about over the past year, Danareksa,
which is a creation of the
the president,
is tasked with implementing this, but
even some of the most senior executives
there had no idea
that this was coming, and now they're
the ones being tasked with implementing
it. And you know, it appears like
something which is going to be
incredibly difficult to implement given
the scale of these flows that we're
talking about.
Yeah, you mentioned in the story there,
implementation will be key for all this.
Eddie, I thank you so much for the
fantastic reporting there. Eddie Spence
there, our commodities reporter joining
us live from Jakarta this morning. In
terms of just what we're seeing across
these markets beyond just the commodity
space, it's really one thing, and which
is of course the chips continue to do
very well here today. Take a look at how
Samsung is doing reacting of two of
course the good news that the company
and its labor union have reached a deal
here in the 11th hour, so averting that
strike that was supposed to happen
today. 6% gains for Samsung. SK Hynix is
up some 10%, but we've been tracking of
course everything from robotics and the
like, the whole physical AI side of the
trade is also doing very well. LG
Electronics, for example, in the KOSPI
also lifting it, helping to lift things
to what, 7% gains now for Seoul. If AI
was to become more broadly widely
accepted, right? More mainstream. Yeah.
It's going to be affecting more stocks.
I think it's the headline of one of our
Bloomberg stories, of course, on the
on the Nvidia earnings to the point
Yvonne was making. It's showing up in
not your usual names, but in a broader
basket of of place today. So, it's doing
well. I think it's just a short way of
saying that too. In terms of market
breadth, it's certainly improving on on
on in terms of the positive side of
things. The Hang Seng index intraday, we
are losing a bit of steam right now.
We're about flat for the day. Same with
the CSI 300. We are coming off highs for
the day there as we approach the
30-minute mark to the lunch break, but
we're still higher though by about 1%.
It has, of course, outperformed onshore
over offshore today. Has been
outperforming. Press and tense US
futures a look and this is really goes
into the Nvidia story.
In fact, as we speak, we are actually
also coming off lows on this. We were
down over 100 points on Nasdaq futures.
We're now down to about half. So, it's
looking like the momentum is on the side
of the bulls. I think of an analogy
about how Nvidia investors are. They're
they're kind of like the tiger mom
where you you bring back the A's, you
bring back you you know, you beat
expectations, you beat everyone the
street and yet still not enough.
But they still love their kid in the end
at the end of
>> At the end of the day, they still love
it. Right? You can't get enough of it.
Yeah. Anyways, Jamie [music] Dimon
coming up next on Insight. You don't
want to miss that one. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]